# Markdown Changelog Generator

**Generate a Markdown Changelog from your Github repository.**

[![PyPI
version](https://badge.fury.io/py/github-changelog-md.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/github-changelog-md)&nbsp;
![PyPI - License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/github-changelog-md)&nbsp;

Having a changelog is a great way to keep your users informed about changes to
your project. It is also a great way to keep track of what you have done and
when. However, it can be a pain to maintain, especially if you have a lot of
changes. This tool aims to make it easy to generate a Markdown-formatted
changelog from your project's Github repository.

!!! warning "Important!"

    You need to use the Github `Pull Request` and `Release` methodology for this
    tool to work. If you don't, then this tool is not for you!

    Until you have at least one GitHub Release, this tool will lump all the PRs
    together under the `Unreleased` heading.

It will detect all GitHub releases and generate a changelog based on
the **merged** Pull Requests for each release along with a section for
**unreleased** PRs (those merged since the last release) at the top. It will
also include a list of all Issues closed for each release.

The PRs and issues are grouped by type (bug, enhancement, etc.) and sorted by
latest to oldest in this release. You can add custom sections to the list too.

There is an option to tag all the Unreleased PRs (ie those closed after the
previous release) with an upcoming release number to ease the process of
creating a new release by having the changelog already up to date, *or hide any
unreleased PR's completely*.

There is much more this app can do, see the [Usage](usage/options.md) page for
full details.

While the project is written in Python, it is **NOT** limited to just generating
a changelog for Python projects. It will work with **any Github repository** and
therefore **any coding language**. In this case a
[global](installation.md#globally) installation is recommended. Most linux-based
systems will already have Python installed, but if not, it is easy to install.
Windows and the latest releases of MacOS will need Python to be installed, see
the [Python documentation](https://www.python.org/downloads/){:target="_blank"}
for details.

For an example of the output, see the [Changelog](changelog.md) for this
project.

!!! success ""

    This generator puts a small unobtrusive comment at the bottom of the
    changelog to indicate that it was generated by this tool. This is to
    acknowledge the work of the contributors and to help spread the word about
    this project. Please leave this comment in place for others :pray:.

    If you use this tool and like it, please consider giving it a :star: on
    Github, which helps others find it. Thanks!

    If you find this tool is useful, please consider
    [sponsoring](https://github.com/sponsors/seapagan){:target="_blank"} the
    developer. All sponsors will be listed on the documentation and README. All
    contributions are greatly appreciated and will be directly used to support
    and improve the project.
